README.md, before:

Table of Contents
=================

   * [Instructions to install a k8s cluster](#instructions-to-install-a-k8s-cluster)
      * [Become a Docker Machine](#become-a-docker-machine)
      * [Provision the Cluster](#provision-the-cluster)
         * [Option 1 : Local](#option-1--local)
            * [Minikube](#minikube)
            * [MiniShift](#minishift)
         * [Option 2 : Local - Customized VM](#option-2--local---customized-vm)
            * [Create vdi file from Cloud ISO](#create-vdi-file-from-cloud-iso)
            * [Create VM on VirtualBox](#create-vm-on-virtualbox)
         * [Option 3 : Using a cloud provider](#option-3--using-a-cloud-provider)
            * [Public : Hetzner](#public--hetzner)
            * [Public : Hetzner Cloud](#public--hetzner-cloud)
            * [VPN : OpenStack](#vpn--openstack)
      * [Cluster Deployment (option 2, 3)](#cluster-deployment-option-2-3)
         * [OpenShift](#openshift)
         * [Kubernetes](#kubernetes)
      * [Turn on your OpenShift machine into a Cloud Native Dev environment](#turn-on-your-openshift-machine-into-a-cloud-native-dev-environment)

# Instructions to install a k8s cluster

This project details the `prerequisites` and `steps` necessary to convert a machine / environment into a Cloud Development Platform 
where we can deploy a Kubernetes (aka k8s) cluster.

The documentation has been designed around the following topics :

- Become a Docker machine
- Next, to provision Kubernetes/OpenShift
- Post installation

## Become a Docker Machine

[docker section](doc/docker.md)

## Provision the Cluster

As different tools / bootstrapping methods are available and serve different purposes to install a cluster, the following table 
summarizes and presents the possibilities offered:

| Option  | Cloud Provider             | Purpose                                              | Tool        | ISO                     |  Hypervisor       |
| ------: | ---------------------------| ---------------------------------------------------- | ----------- | ------------------------| :---------------: |
| 1       | Local Machine              | Local dvlpt                                          | Minishift/Minikube   | CentOS or boot2docker   | Xhyve, Virtualbox |
| 2       | Local Machine              | Local dvlpt, test new oc release, validate playbooks | Ansible     | CentOS                  | Virtualbox        |
| 3       | Remote Public  - Hetzner   | Demo, Hands On Lab machine                           | Ansible     | CentOS, Fedora, RHEL    | -                 |
| 4       | Remote Private - OpenStack | Testing, Productization                              | Ansible     | CentOS, Fedora, RHEL    | -                 |

**NOTE**: 
- Aside from `option 1` where the `Minishift` tool manages the whole process to create the vm and next install the docker server, the other `options` only require a Linux VM and Docker server.
- For `option 3`, the Linux VM must be accessible using `ssh`
- The `option 2, 3` can also performed using `fedora`, `rhel` or `ubuntu` operating system but they haven't been tested and will not be presented here.

### Option 1 : Local

For local development on your machine, you can install a `K8s` cluster using `minikube` or `minishift` depending which flavor you prefer to use as distribution

#### Minikube

See the [official documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/) to install `minikube` on Macos, Linux or Windows

#### MiniShift

`Minishift` is a tool that helps you to run `OpenShift` locally by launching a single-node `OpenShift` cluster inside a virtual machine.

- Why or when to use it ? 
  - To try out `OpenShift` or develop with it, day-to-day, on your local machine
  - `ansible playbooks` can't be use to perform post installation tasks
  - `addons` exist to install additional features but syntax is very basic

- Prerequisites
  - [Xhyve](https://docs.openshift.org/latest/minishift/getting-started/setting-up-virtualization-environment.html#setting-up-xhyve-driver) OR 
  - [Virtualbox](https://docs.openshift.org/latest/minishift/getting-started/setting-up-virtualization-environment.html#setting-up-virtualbox-driver) OR 
  - [Hyperkit](https://docs.openshift.org/latest/minishift/getting-started/setting-up-virtualization-environment.html#setting-up-hyperkit-driver) hypervisor is installed

- How To

  1. Download and [install](https://docs.openshift.org/latest/minishift/getting-started/installing.html) `Minishift` using latest release available
  
  2. Start it locally
  
     ```bash
     minishift start
     ```
 
  3. For a more complex scenario where additional features are required, then you can (re)use the following bash script - `bootstrap_vm.sh <image_cache_boolean> <ocp_version>`. 
     It will create a `centos7` vm using `xhyve` hypervisor and next execute this list of tasks
  
     - Create a MiniShift `demo` profile
     - Git clone `MiniShift addons` repo to install the `ansible-service-broker`
     - Enable/disable `MiniShift` cache (according to the `boolean` parameter)
     - Install the docker images within the OpenShift registry, according to the ocp version defined
     - Start `MiniShift` using the experimental features
     
     ```bash
     cd minishift    
     ./bootstrap_vm.sh true 3.11.0
     ```
     
     **NOTE** : The caching option can be used in order to export the docker images locally, which will speed up the bootstrap process next time you recreate the OpenShift virtual machine / installation.
     
     **NOTE** : The user to use to access the OpenShift installation is `admin` with the password `admin`. This user has been granted the OpenShift Cluster Admin role.
     
     **NOTE** : Once the virtual machine has been created, it can be stopped/started using the commands `minishift stop|start --profile demo`.

### Option 2 : Local - Customized VM

When it is needed to customize the `Linux VM` locally, you cannot rely on the VM installed with mini(kube/shift) or docker destop tools as they dont offer the possibility 
to install additional packages, to custmize easily the firewall, host adapters, ...

This is also specifically true when you will install the cluster using `ansible-playbook` as the deployment tool.
The `Ansible playooks` requires some `prerequisites` in addition to having a
primary ethernet adapter, the one to be used by the OpenShift Master API (which is the Kubernetes controller, ....).

For such an environment, it makes sense to customize a Linux ISO image and to perform post-installation tasks to make it ready for your needs.

The following section explains how you can create a customized Generic Cloud image, repackaged as a `vdi` file for Virtualbox.

#### Create vdi file from Cloud ISO

In order to customize the Linux VM for the cloud, we are using the [cloud-init](http://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest) tool which is a set of python scripts and utilities 
able to perform tasks as defined hereafter : 

- Configure the Network adapters (NAT, vboxnet),
- Add a `root` user and configure its password
- Additionally add non root user
- Import your public ssh key and authorize it, 
- Install `docker, ansible, networkManager` packages using yum

**Note** : Centos 7 ISO includes the `cloud-init` tool by default (version `0.7.9`). 

To create from the Centos ISO file a VirtualDisk that Virtualbox can use, you will have to execute the following bash script `./new-iso.sh`, which will perform the following tasks :

- Add your SSH public key within the `user-data` file using as input the `user-data.tpl` file 
- Package the files `user-data` and `meta-data` within an ISO file created using `genisoimage` application
- Download the CentOS Generic Cloud image and save it under `/PATH/TO/IMAGES/DIR`
- Convert the `raw` Centos ISO image to `vdi` file format
- Save the `vdi` file under `/PATH/TO/IMAGES/DIR`

**WARNING** : The following tools `virtualbox, mkisofs, wget` are required on your machine before to execute the bash script !

Execute this bash script where you pass as parameter, the directory containing the ISO, vdi files `</LOCAL/HOME/DIR>` and the name of the Generic Cloud file `<IMAGE_NAME>` to be downloaded
and next repackaged

```bash
./new-iso.sh </PATH/TO/IMAGES/DIR> <IMAGE_NAME>
```

Example:
```bash
./new-iso.sh /Users/dabou/images CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud
#### 1. Add ssh public key and create user-data file
#### 2. http://cloud.centos.org/centos/7/images/CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud.raw.tar.gz is already there
#### 3. Untar the cloud ra.tar.gz file
x CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-1802.raw
#### 4. Generating ISO file containing user-data, meta-data files and used by cloud-init at bootstrap
Total translation table size: 0
Total rockridge attributes bytes: 331
Total directory bytes: 0
Path table size(bytes): 10
Max brk space used 0
64 extents written (0 Mb)
#### 5. Converting ISO to VDI format
Converting from raw image file="/Users/dabou/images/CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-1802.raw" to file="/Users/dabou/images/centos7.vdi"...
Creating dynamic image with size 8589934592 bytes (8192MB)...
Done
```
The `vdi` file is then created on your machine under the directory passed as parameter `</PATH/TO/IMAGES/DIR>`
```bash
ls -la $HOME/images
-rw-r--r--    1 dabou  staff  8589934592 Mar  7 22:15 CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-1802.raw
-rw-r--r--@   1 dabou  staff   380383665 Mar  7 22:15 CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud.raw.tar.gz
-rw-r--r--@   1 dabou  staff   648761897 Mar 15 18:07 CentOS-Atomic-Host-7-GenericCloud.qcow2.gz
-rw-------    1 dabou  staff   905969664 May  4 14:43 centos7.vdi
-rw-r--r--    1 dabou  staff      131072 May  4 14:43 vbox-config.iso
```

#### Create VM on VirtualBox

To automate the process to create a vm top of `Virtualbox`, you will then execute the following script `create_vm.sh`.

This script will perform the following tasks:

- Power off the virtual machine if it is running
- Unregister the vm `$VIRTUAL_BOX_NAME` and delete it
- Rename Centos `vdi` to `disk.vdi`
- Resize the `vdi` disk to `15GB`
- Create `vboxnet0` network and set dhcp server IP : `192.168.99.50/24`
- Create Virtual Machine
- Define NIC adapters; NAT accessing internet and `vboxnet0` to create a private network between the host and the guest
- Customize vm; ram, cpu, ...
- Create IDE Controller, attach iso dvd and vdi disk
- Start vm and configure SSH Port forward
- Create an ansible inventory file (of type `simple`) that can be used to execute the project's playbooks against the newly created vm (this is only done if Ansible is installed) 

```bash
cd virtualbox
Usage : ./create-vm.sh -i /PATH/TO/IMAGE/DIR -c 4 -m 4000 -d 20000
i - /path/to/image/dir - mandatory
c - cpu option - default to 4
m - memory (ram) option - default to 4000
d - hard disk size (option) - default to 20000

```
Example:
```bash
./create-vm.sh -i /Users/dabou/images 
######### Poweroff machine if it runs
VBoxManage: error: Machine 'CentOS-7' is not currently running
######### .............. Done
######### unregister vm CentOS-7 and delete it
0%...10%...20%...30%...40%...50%...60%...70%...80%...90%...100%
######### Copy disk.vdi created
######### Create vboxnet0 network and set dhcp server : 192.168.99.0/24
0%...10%...20%...30%...40%...50%...60%...70%...80%...90%...100%
0%...10%...20%...30%...40%...50%...60%...70%...80%...90%...100%
Interface 'vboxnet0' was successfully created
######### Create VM
Virtual machine 'CentOS-7' is created and registered.
UUID: ac99a6b7-0415-41b3-82ff-46f1b9dc4fec
Settings file: '/Users/dabou/VirtualBox VMs/CentOS-7/CentOS-7.vbox'
######### Define NIC adapters; NAT and vboxnet0
######### Customize vm; ram, cpu, ....
######### Resize VDI disk to 15GB
0%...10%...20%...30%...40%...50%...60%...70%...80%...90%...100%
######### Create IDE Controller, attach vdi disk and iso dvd
######### start vm and configure SSH Port forward
Waiting for VM "CentOS-7" to power on...
VM "CentOS-7" has been successfully started.
######### Generating Ansible inventory file
 [WARNING]: Unable to parse /etc/ansible/hosts as an inventory source

 [WARNING]: No inventory was parsed, only implicit localhost is available

 [WARNING]: provided hosts list is empty, only localhost is available. Note that the implicit localhost does not match 'all'


PLAY [localhost] ********************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************

TASK [generate_inventory : set_fact] ************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
ok: [localhost]

TASK [generate_inventory : Create Ansible Host file] ********************************************************************************************************************************************************************
ok: [localhost]

TASK [generate_inventory : command] *************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
changed: [localhost]

TASK [generate_inventory : Show inventory file location] ****************************************************************************************************************************************************************
ok: [localhost] => {
    "msg": "Inventory file created at : /Users/dabou/Code/snowdrop/k8s-infra/ansible/inventory/simple_host"
}

PLAY RECAP **************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
localhost                  : ok=4    changed=1    unreachable=0    failed=0  
```

**Note** : VirtualBox will fail to unregister and remove the vm the first time you execute the script; warning messages will be displayed!

Test if you can ssh to the newly created vm using the private address `192.168.99.50`!
```bash
ssh root@192.168.99.50     
The authenticity of host '192.168.99.50 (192.168.99.50)' can't be established.
ECDSA key fingerprint is SHA256:0yyu8xv/SD++5MbRFwc1QKXXgbV1AQOQnVf1YjqQkj4.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)? yes
Warning: Permanently added '192.168.99.50' (ECDSA) to the list of known hosts.

[root@cloud ~]# 
```

- Move to `OpenShift deployment` [section](#openshift-deployment) to see how to provision the local VM.

### Option 3 : Using a cloud provider

#### Public : Hetzner

- See [hetzner](hetzner/README.md) page explaining how to create a vm.
- Move to `OpenShift deployment` [section](#openshift-deployment) to see how to provision the local VM.

#### Public : Hetzner Cloud

- See [hetzner-cloud](hetzner/README-cloud.md) page explaining how to create a cloud vm.

#### VPN : OpenStack

- See [OpenStack](openstack/README.md) page explaining how to create an OpenStack cloud vm.
- Move to `OpenShift deployment` [section](#openshift-deployment) hereafter to see how to provision the local VM.

## Cluster Deployment (option 2, 3)

As the vm is now running and the docker daemon is up, you can install your `k8s` distribution using either one of the following approaches :

### OpenShift

- Simple using the `oc` binary tool and the command [oc cluster up](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/docs/cluster_up_down.md) within the vm
- More elaborated using `Ansible` tool and one of the following playbook/role:
  - `oc cluster up` [role](doc/oc.md)
  - `openshift-ansible` all-in-one playbook as described [here](doc/cloud.md)
  
### Kubernetes

You can then use the following instructions to install a Kubernetes cluster with the help of Ansible and the [roles we created](doc/k8s.md)

## Turn on your machine into a Cloud Native Dev environment 

Independent of the approach you choose before, you'll be now able to configure your cluster
using one of the following features and with the help of the [Ansible roles](ansible/roles) we have created: 

- Create list of users/passwords and their corresponding project
- Grant Cluster admin role to an OpenShift user 
- Set the Master-configuration of OpenShift to use `htpasswd` as its identity provider
- Enable Persistence using `hotPath` as `persistenceVolume`
- Install Nexus Repository Server
- Install Jenkins and configure it to handle `s2i` builds started within an OpenShift project
- Install Distributed Tracing - Jaeger
- Install ServiceMesh - Istio
- Deploy the [Ansible Service Broker](http://automationbroker.io/)
- Install and enable the Fabric8 [Launcher](http://fabric8-launcher)
...

See [Ansible post installation](doc/post-installation.md)

Commit message:

Chore: Add option 1 - kind tool

README.md, after:

Table of Contents
=================

   * [Instructions to install a k8s cluster](#instructions-to-install-a-k8s-cluster)
      * [Become a Docker Machine](#become-a-docker-machine)
      * [Provision the Cluster](#provision-the-cluster)
         * [Option 1 : Local](#option-1--local)
            * [Minikube](#minikube)
            * [MiniShift](#minishift)
         * [Option 2 : Local - Customized VM](#option-2--local---customized-vm)
            * [Create vdi file from Cloud ISO](#create-vdi-file-from-cloud-iso)
            * [Create VM on VirtualBox](#create-vm-on-virtualbox)
         * [Option 3 : Using a cloud provider](#option-3--using-a-cloud-provider)
            * [Public : Hetzner](#public--hetzner)
            * [Public : Hetzner Cloud](#public--hetzner-cloud)
            * [VPN : OpenStack](#vpn--openstack)
      * [Cluster Deployment (option 2, 3)](#cluster-deployment-option-2-3)
         * [OpenShift](#openshift)
         * [Kubernetes](#kubernetes)
      * [Turn on your OpenShift machine into a Cloud Native Dev environment](#turn-on-your-openshift-machine-into-a-cloud-native-dev-environment)

# Instructions to install a k8s cluster

This project details the `prerequisites` and `steps` necessary to convert a machine / environment into a Cloud Development Platform 
where we can deploy a Kubernetes (aka k8s) cluster.

The documentation has been designed around the following topics :

- Become a Docker machine
- Next, to provision Kubernetes/OpenShift
- Post installation

## Become a Docker Machine

[docker section](doc/docker.md)

## Provision the Cluster

As different tools / bootstrapping methods are available and serve different purposes to install a cluster, the following table 
summarizes and presents the possibilities offered:

| Option  | Cloud Provider             | Purpose                                              | Tool        | ISO                     |  Hypervisor       |
| ------: | ---------------------------| ---------------------------------------------------- | ----------- | ------------------------| :---------------: |
| 1       | Local Machine              | Local dvlpt                                          | Kind   | -   | Hyperkit |
| 2       | Local Machine              | Local dvlpt                                          | Minishift/Minikube   | CentOS or boot2docker   | Xhyve, Virtualbox |
| 3       | Local Machine              | Local dvlpt, test new oc release, validate playbooks | Ansible     | CentOS                  | Virtualbox        |
| 4       | Remote Public  - Hetzner   | Demo, Hands On Lab machine                           | Ansible     | CentOS, Fedora, RHEL    | -                 |
| 5       | Remote Private - OpenStack | Testing, Productization                              | Ansible     | CentOS, Fedora, RHEL    | -                 |

**NOTE**: 
- For `option 1`, `Kind` tool needs a local `Docker server` running on your laptop.
- Aside from `option 2` where `Minishift/Minikube` tools manages the whole process to create the vm and next install Docker, the other `options` only require a Linux VM and Docker.
- For `option 4`, the Linux VM must be accessible using `ssh`
- The `option 3, 4` can also performed using `fedora`, `rhel` or `ubuntu` operating system but they haven't been tested and will not be presented here.

### Option 1 : Local

For local development on your machine, you can install a `K8s` cluster using `minikube` or `minishift` depending which flavor you prefer to use as distribution.

#### Kind

See instructions - https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/

#### Minikube

See the [official documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/) to install `minikube` on Macos, Linux or Windows

#### MiniShift

`Minishift` is a tool that helps you to run `OpenShift` locally by launching a single-node `OpenShift` cluster inside a virtual machine.

- Why or when to use it ? 
  - To try out `OpenShift` or develop with it, day-to-day, on your local machine
  - `ansible playbooks` can't be use to perform post installation tasks
  - `addons` exist to install additional features but syntax is very basic

- Prerequisites
  - [Xhyve](https://docs.openshift.org/latest/minishift/getting-started/setting-up-virtualization-environment.html#setting-up-xhyve-driver) OR 
  - [Virtualbox](https://docs.openshift.org/latest/minishift/getting-started/setting-up-virtualization-environment.html#setting-up-virtualbox-driver) OR 
  - [Hyperkit](https://docs.openshift.org/latest/minishift/getting-started/setting-up-virtualization-environment.html#setting-up-hyperkit-driver) hypervisor is installed

- How To

  1. Download and [install](https://docs.openshift.org/latest/minishift/getting-started/installing.html) `Minishift` using latest release available
  
  2. Start it locally
  
     ```bash
     minishift start
     ```
 
  3. For a more complex scenario where additional features are required, then you can (re)use the following bash script - `bootstrap_vm.sh <image_cache_boolean> <ocp_version>`. 
     It will create a `centos7` vm using `xhyve` hypervisor and next execute this list of tasks
  
     - Create a MiniShift `demo` profile
     - Git clone `MiniShift addons` repo to install the `ansible-service-broker`
     - Enable/disable `MiniShift` cache (according to the `boolean` parameter)
     - Install the docker images within the OpenShift registry, according to the ocp version defined
     - Start `MiniShift` using the experimental features
     
     ```bash
     cd minishift    
     ./bootstrap_vm.sh true 3.11.0
     ```
     
     **NOTE** : The caching option can be used in order to export the docker images locally, which will speed up the bootstrap process next time you recreate the OpenShift virtual machine / installation.
     
     **NOTE** : The user to use to access the OpenShift installation is `admin` with the password `admin`. This user has been granted the OpenShift Cluster Admin role.
     
     **NOTE** : Once the virtual machine has been created, it can be stopped/started using the commands `minishift stop|start --profile demo`.

### Option 2 : Local - Customized VM

When it is needed to customize the `Linux VM` locally, you cannot rely on the VM installed with mini(kube/shift) or docker destop tools as they dont offer the possibility 
to install additional packages, to custmize easily the firewall, host adapters, ...

This is also specifically true when you will install the cluster using `ansible-playbook` as the deployment tool.
The `Ansible playooks` requires some `prerequisites` in addition to having a
primary ethernet adapter, the one to be used by the OpenShift Master API (which is the Kubernetes controller, ....).

For such an environment, it makes sense to customize a Linux ISO image and to perform post-installation tasks to make it ready for your needs.

The following section explains how you can create a customized Generic Cloud image, repackaged as a `vdi` file for Virtualbox.

#### Create vdi file from Cloud ISO

In order to customize the Linux VM for the cloud, we are using the [cloud-init](http://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest) tool which is a set of python scripts and utilities 
able to perform tasks as defined hereafter : 

- Configure the Network adapters (NAT, vboxnet),
- Add a `root` user and configure its password
- Additionally add non root user
- Import your public ssh key and authorize it, 
- Install `docker, ansible, networkManager` packages using yum

**Note** : Centos 7 ISO includes the `cloud-init` tool by default (version `0.7.9`). 

To create from the Centos ISO file a VirtualDisk that Virtualbox can use, you will have to execute the following bash script `./new-iso.sh`, which will perform the following tasks :

- Add your SSH public key within the `user-data` file using as input the `user-data.tpl` file 
- Package the files `user-data` and `meta-data` within an ISO file created using `genisoimage` application
- Download the CentOS Generic Cloud image and save it under `/PATH/TO/IMAGES/DIR`
- Convert the `raw` Centos ISO image to `vdi` file format
- Save the `vdi` file under `/PATH/TO/IMAGES/DIR`

**WARNING** : The following tools `virtualbox, mkisofs, wget` are required on your machine before to execute the bash script !

Execute this bash script where you pass as parameter, the directory containing the ISO, vdi files `</LOCAL/HOME/DIR>` and the name of the Generic Cloud file `<IMAGE_NAME>` to be downloaded
and next repackaged

```bash
./new-iso.sh </PATH/TO/IMAGES/DIR> <IMAGE_NAME>
```

Example:
```bash
./new-iso.sh /Users/dabou/images CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud
#### 1. Add ssh public key and create user-data file
#### 2. http://cloud.centos.org/centos/7/images/CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud.raw.tar.gz is already there
#### 3. Untar the cloud ra.tar.gz file
x CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-1802.raw
#### 4. Generating ISO file containing user-data, meta-data files and used by cloud-init at bootstrap
Total translation table size: 0
Total rockridge attributes bytes: 331
Total directory bytes: 0
Path table size(bytes): 10
Max brk space used 0
64 extents written (0 Mb)
#### 5. Converting ISO to VDI format
Converting from raw image file="/Users/dabou/images/CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-1802.raw" to file="/Users/dabou/images/centos7.vdi"...
Creating dynamic image with size 8589934592 bytes (8192MB)...
Done
```
The `vdi` file is then created on your machine under the directory passed as parameter `</PATH/TO/IMAGES/DIR>`
```bash
ls -la $HOME/images
-rw-r--r--    1 dabou  staff  8589934592 Mar  7 22:15 CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-1802.raw
-rw-r--r--@   1 dabou  staff   380383665 Mar  7 22:15 CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud.raw.tar.gz
-rw-r--r--@   1 dabou  staff   648761897 Mar 15 18:07 CentOS-Atomic-Host-7-GenericCloud.qcow2.gz
-rw-------    1 dabou  staff   905969664 May  4 14:43 centos7.vdi
-rw-r--r--    1 dabou  staff      131072 May  4 14:43 vbox-config.iso
```

#### Create VM on VirtualBox

To automate the process to create a vm top of `Virtualbox`, you will then execute the following script `create_vm.sh`.

This script will perform the following tasks:

- Power off the virtual machine if it is running
- Unregister the vm `$VIRTUAL_BOX_NAME` and delete it
- Rename Centos `vdi` to `disk.vdi`
- Resize the `vdi` disk to `15GB`
- Create `vboxnet0` network and set dhcp server IP : `192.168.99.50/24`
- Create Virtual Machine
- Define NIC adapters; NAT accessing internet and `vboxnet0` to create a private network between the host and the guest
- Customize vm; ram, cpu, ...
- Create IDE Controller, attach iso dvd and vdi disk
- Start vm and configure SSH Port forward
- Create an ansible inventory file (of type `simple`) that can be used to execute the project's playbooks against the newly created vm (this is only done if Ansible is installed) 

```bash
cd virtualbox
Usage : ./create-vm.sh -i /PATH/TO/IMAGE/DIR -c 4 -m 4000 -d 20000
i - /path/to/image/dir - mandatory
c - cpu option - default to 4
m - memory (ram) option - default to 4000
d - hard disk size (option) - default to 20000

```
Example:
```bash
./create-vm.sh -i /Users/dabou/images 
######### Poweroff machine if it runs
VBoxManage: error: Machine 'CentOS-7' is not currently running
######### .............. Done
######### unregister vm CentOS-7 and delete it
0%...10%...20%...30%...40%...50%...60%...70%...80%...90%...100%
######### Copy disk.vdi created
######### Create vboxnet0 network and set dhcp server : 192.168.99.0/24
0%...10%...20%...30%...40%...50%...60%...70%...80%...90%...100%
0%...10%...20%...30%...40%...50%...60%...70%...80%...90%...100%
Interface 'vboxnet0' was successfully created
######### Create VM
Virtual machine 'CentOS-7' is created and registered.
UUID: ac99a6b7-0415-41b3-82ff-46f1b9dc4fec
Settings file: '/Users/dabou/VirtualBox VMs/CentOS-7/CentOS-7.vbox'
######### Define NIC adapters; NAT and vboxnet0
######### Customize vm; ram, cpu, ....
######### Resize VDI disk to 15GB
0%...10%...20%...30%...40%...50%...60%...70%...80%...90%...100%
######### Create IDE Controller, attach vdi disk and iso dvd
######### start vm and configure SSH Port forward
Waiting for VM "CentOS-7" to power on...
VM "CentOS-7" has been successfully started.
######### Generating Ansible inventory file
 [WARNING]: Unable to parse /etc/ansible/hosts as an inventory source

 [WARNING]: No inventory was parsed, only implicit localhost is available

 [WARNING]: provided hosts list is empty, only localhost is available. Note that the implicit localhost does not match 'all'


PLAY [localhost] ********************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************

TASK [generate_inventory : set_fact] ************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
ok: [localhost]

TASK [generate_inventory : Create Ansible Host file] ********************************************************************************************************************************************************************
ok: [localhost]

TASK [generate_inventory : command] *************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
changed: [localhost]

TASK [generate_inventory : Show inventory file location] ****************************************************************************************************************************************************************
ok: [localhost] => {
    "msg": "Inventory file created at : /Users/dabou/Code/snowdrop/k8s-infra/ansible/inventory/simple_host"
}

PLAY RECAP **************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************
localhost                  : ok=4    changed=1    unreachable=0    failed=0  
```

**Note** : VirtualBox will fail to unregister and remove the vm the first time you execute the script; warning messages will be displayed!

Test if you can ssh to the newly created vm using the private address `192.168.99.50`!
```bash
ssh root@192.168.99.50     
The authenticity of host '192.168.99.50 (192.168.99.50)' can't be established.
ECDSA key fingerprint is SHA256:0yyu8xv/SD++5MbRFwc1QKXXgbV1AQOQnVf1YjqQkj4.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)? yes
Warning: Permanently added '192.168.99.50' (ECDSA) to the list of known hosts.

[root@cloud ~]# 
```

- Move to `OpenShift deployment` [section](#openshift-deployment) to see how to provision the local VM.

### Option 3 : Using a cloud provider

#### Public : Hetzner

- See [hetzner](hetzner/README.md) page explaining how to create a vm.
- Move to `OpenShift deployment` [section](#openshift-deployment) to see how to provision the local VM.

#### Public : Hetzner Cloud

- See [hetzner-cloud](hetzner/README-cloud.md) page explaining how to create a cloud vm.

#### VPN : OpenStack

- See [OpenStack](openstack/README.md) page explaining how to create an OpenStack cloud vm.
- Move to `OpenShift deployment` [section](#openshift-deployment) hereafter to see how to provision the local VM.

## Cluster Deployment (option 2, 3)

As the vm is now running and the docker daemon is up, you can install your `k8s` distribution using either one of the following approaches :

### OpenShift

- Simple using the `oc` binary tool and the command [oc cluster up](https://github.com/openshift/origin/blob/master/docs/cluster_up_down.md) within the vm
- More elaborated using `Ansible` tool and one of the following playbook/role:
  - `oc cluster up` [role](doc/oc.md)
  - `openshift-ansible` all-in-one playbook as described [here](doc/cloud.md)
  
### Kubernetes

You can then use the following instructions to install a Kubernetes cluster with the help of Ansible and the [roles we created](doc/k8s.md)

## Turn on your machine into a Cloud Native Dev environment 

Independent of the approach you choose before, you'll be now able to configure your cluster
using one of the following features and with the help of the [Ansible roles](ansible/roles) we have created: 

- Create list of users/passwords and their corresponding project
- Grant Cluster admin role to an OpenShift user 
- Set the Master-configuration of OpenShift to use `htpasswd` as its identity provider
- Enable Persistence using `hotPath` as `persistenceVolume`
- Install Nexus Repository Server
- Install Jenkins and configure it to handle `s2i` builds started within an OpenShift project
- Install Distributed Tracing - Jaeger
- Install ServiceMesh - Istio
- Deploy the [Ansible Service Broker](http://automationbroker.io/)
- Install and enable the Fabric8 [Launcher](http://fabric8-launcher)
...

See [Ansible post installation](doc/post-installation.md)
