openstack/openstack-cli.adoc, before:

= OpenStack CLI
:icons: font
:toc: left
:description: This document describes Openstack CLI commands.

== References

* https://docs.openstack.org/newton/user-guide/common/cli-install-openstack-command-line-clients.html

== Prerequisites

Install OpenStack client.

[source,bash]
----
pip install --upgrade python-openstackclient
----

== CLI commands

=== Login

Login can be made using Environment Variables.

To configure the login process connect to the OpenStack interface and go to the `Project > API Access`` option. From there, `OpenStack RC` file.

Copy the file to a path directory, for instance `~/bin` (or `~/.local/bin`) and give it execution permission.

Execute the script file and give provide the password when requested.

[source,bash]
----
Please enter your OpenStack Password for project xxxxxxxxxx as user xxxxxxxxxxxx: 
----

That's it, you're now logged in.

=== Flavor

List flavors.

[source,bash]
----
$ openstack flavor list

The flavors with more than 32GB are the following...

```
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------------+--------+------+-----------+-------+-----------+
| ID                                   | Name                               |    RAM | Disk | Ephemeral | VCPUs | Is Public |
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------------+--------+------+-----------+-------+-----------+
| 0f84ff1f-2cc8-4c99-baa2-d663577bd538 | ci.memory.xxl                      |  98304 |   60 |         0 |    12 | True      |
| 3410bf5a-31c6-43f9-a859-a0f848552bc2 | ci.m5.xlarge                       |  49152 |   40 |         0 |    24 | True      |
| 393bcaeb-a8bf-4a18-a893-799f01e338b8 | ci.memory.xxxl                     | 131072 |   80 |         0 |    16 | True      |
| 52e23b17-4039-488e-9c63-543795a31bb8 | g.memory.xxxl                      | 131072 |   80 |         0 |    16 | True      |
| 8cc169d5-184a-4392-bc27-6eac97735d62 | ocp-master-xxl                     |  49152 |   45 |         0 |    32 | True      |
...
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------------+--------+------+-----------+-------+-----------+
```
----

Other list commands

.Filter list by RAM
[source,bash]
----
openstack flavor list --min-ram 33000
----

Create a new flavor.

.Create flavor
[source,bash]
----
$ openstack flavor create g.standard.xxxl.ram --ram 40960 --disk 160 --vcpus 16
----

=== Server

List servers.

[source,bash]
----
$ openstack server list

+--------------------------------------+----------------------------+---------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-----------------+
| ID                                   | Name                       | Status  | Networks                        | Image                                        | Flavor          |
+--------------------------------------+----------------------------+---------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-----------------+
| xxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxx | k123-fedora35-01           | SHUTOFF | provider_net_shared=x.x.x.x | Fedora-Cloud-Base-35                         | g.standard.xxxl |
| xxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxx | 20220425-k121-centos8-test | ACTIVE  | provider_net_shared=x.x.x.x  | CentOS-8-x86_64-GenericCloud-released-latest | ci.m5.large     |
| xxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxx | n119-test                  | ACTIVE  | provider_net_shared=x.x.x.x  | CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-released-latest | ci.m5.large     |
+--------------------------------------+----------------------------+---------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-----------------+

----

==== Resize server

[source,bash]
====
$ nova help resize

usage: nova resize [--poll] <server> <flavor>

Resize a server.

Positional arguments:
  <server>  Name or ID of server.
  <flavor>  Name or ID of new flavor.

Options:
  --poll    Report the server resize progress until it completes.
====

[source,bash]
----
$ nova resize --poll k123-fedora35-01 PnTAE.CPU_20_Memory_65536_Disk_200

Server resizing... 100% complete
Finished
----

Confirm resize.

[source,bash]
----
$ nova help resize-confirm
usage: nova resize-confirm <server>

Confirm a previous resize.

Positional arguments:
  <server>  Name or ID of server.
----

[source,bash]
----
$ nova resize-confirm k123-fedora35-01
----



Typical errors.

[source,bash]
----
$ nova resize --poll k123-fedora35-01 PnTAE.CPU_20_Memory_65536_Disk_200
ERROR (Forbidden): Quota exceeded for ram: Requested 32768, but already used 98304 of 122880 ram (HTTP 403) (Request-ID: xxxxxxxxxxxxxx)
----

[source,bash]
----
$ nova resize --poll k123-fedora35-01 ci.m5.xlarge
ERROR (ClientException): Unexpected API Error. Please report this at http://bugs.launchpad.net/nova/ and attach the Nova API log if possible.
<class 'nova.exception.FlavorDiskSmallerThanMinDisk'> (HTTP 500) (Request-ID: req-774039f4-3619-4bb8-8727-31e5f99edda2)
----

== Current implementation

=== Images

Different OS images are available on Openstack.

.OpenStack Image information
[%header,cols="2m,1,1,1"]
|===
| Name | OS | Version | FS

| Fedora-Cloud-Base-35 | Fedora | 35 | BTRFS
| CentOS-8-x86_64-GenericCloud-released-latest | CentOS | 8 | ????
| CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-released-latest | CentOS | 7 | ????

|===

=== Flavors


.OpenStack Flavor information
[%header,cols="2m,1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Flavor | VCPUS | RAM | Total Disks | Root Disk | Ephmeral Disk

| m1.medium | 2 | 4 GB | 40 GB | 40 GB | 0 GB 
| ci.m1.medium | 2 | 4 GB | 40 GB | 40 GB | 0 GB 
| ci.m1.medium.large	| 4| 4 GB | 16 GB | 16 GB | 0 GB 
| ci.m5.large | 16 | 32GB | 40GB | 40GB | 0GB 
|===




:leveloffset: +1

include::../ansible/playbook/openstack/README.adoc[]

:leveloffset: -1

Commit message:

Review the instructions to use openstack python client and flavor command
Signed-off-by: Charles Moulliard <cmoulliard@redhat.com>

openstack/openstack-cli.adoc, after:

= OpenStack CLI
:icons: font
:toc: left
:description: This document describes Openstack CLI commands.

== References

* https://docs.openstack.org/newton/user-guide/common/cli-install-openstack-command-line-clients.html

== Prerequisites

Install OpenStack client.

[source,bash]
----
pip install --upgrade python-openstackclient
----

== CLI commands

=== Login

To access the OpenStack platform using the client, different `Environment Variables` must be set as described https://docs.openstack.org/newton/user-guide/common/cli-set-environment-variables-using-openstack-rc.html[here].

So, connect to your RHOS instance (e.g https://rhos-d.infra.prod.upshift.rdu2.redhat.com/) and select within the menu: `Project > API Access`.
From there, download the `OpenStack RC file` bash file by clicking on the button.

Copy the file to a path directory, for instance `~/bin` (or `~/.local/bin` or `/usr/local/bin`) and give it execution permission.
Source the bash script and give provide the password when requested.

[source,bash]
----
Please enter your OpenStack Password for project xxxxxxxxxx as user xxxxxxxxxxxx: 
----

That's it, you're now logged in.

=== Flavor

.Get the list of the flavors

[source,bash]
----
$ openstack flavor list
```
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------------+--------+------+-----------+-------+-----------+
| ID                                   | Name                               |    RAM | Disk | Ephemeral | VCPUs | Is Public |
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------------+--------+------+-----------+-------+-----------+
| 0f84ff1f-2cc8-4c99-baa2-d663577bd538 | ci.memory.xxl                      |  98304 |   60 |         0 |    12 | True      |
| 3410bf5a-31c6-43f9-a859-a0f848552bc2 | ci.m5.xlarge                       |  49152 |   40 |         0 |    24 | True      |
| 393bcaeb-a8bf-4a18-a893-799f01e338b8 | ci.memory.xxxl                     | 131072 |   80 |         0 |    16 | True      |
| 52e23b17-4039-488e-9c63-543795a31bb8 | g.memory.xxxl                      | 131072 |   80 |         0 |    16 | True      |
| 8cc169d5-184a-4392-bc27-6eac97735d62 | ocp-master-xxl                     |  49152 |   45 |         0 |    32 | True      |
...
+--------------------------------------+------------------------------------+--------+------+-----------+-------+-----------+
```
----

.Filter list by RAM
[source,bash]
----
openstack flavor list --min-ram 33000
----

Create a new flavor.

.Create flavor
[source,bash]
----
$ openstack flavor create g.standard.xxxl.ram --ram 40960 --disk 160 --vcpus 16
----

=== Server

List servers.

[source,bash]
----
$ openstack server list

+--------------------------------------+----------------------------+---------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-----------------+
| ID                                   | Name                       | Status  | Networks                        | Image                                        | Flavor          |
+--------------------------------------+----------------------------+---------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-----------------+
| xxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxx | k123-fedora35-01           | SHUTOFF | provider_net_shared=x.x.x.x | Fedora-Cloud-Base-35                         | g.standard.xxxl |
| xxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxx | 20220425-k121-centos8-test | ACTIVE  | provider_net_shared=x.x.x.x  | CentOS-8-x86_64-GenericCloud-released-latest | ci.m5.large     |
| xxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxx | n119-test                  | ACTIVE  | provider_net_shared=x.x.x.x  | CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-released-latest | ci.m5.large     |
+--------------------------------------+----------------------------+---------+---------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+-----------------+

----

==== Resize server

[source,bash]
====
$ nova help resize

usage: nova resize [--poll] <server> <flavor>

Resize a server.

Positional arguments:
  <server>  Name or ID of server.
  <flavor>  Name or ID of new flavor.

Options:
  --poll    Report the server resize progress until it completes.
====

[source,bash]
----
$ nova resize --poll k123-fedora35-01 PnTAE.CPU_20_Memory_65536_Disk_200

Server resizing... 100% complete
Finished
----

Confirm resize.

[source,bash]
----
$ nova help resize-confirm
usage: nova resize-confirm <server>

Confirm a previous resize.

Positional arguments:
  <server>  Name or ID of server.
----

[source,bash]
----
$ nova resize-confirm k123-fedora35-01
----



Typical errors.

[source,bash]
----
$ nova resize --poll k123-fedora35-01 PnTAE.CPU_20_Memory_65536_Disk_200
ERROR (Forbidden): Quota exceeded for ram: Requested 32768, but already used 98304 of 122880 ram (HTTP 403) (Request-ID: xxxxxxxxxxxxxx)
----

[source,bash]
----
$ nova resize --poll k123-fedora35-01 ci.m5.xlarge
ERROR (ClientException): Unexpected API Error. Please report this at http://bugs.launchpad.net/nova/ and attach the Nova API log if possible.
<class 'nova.exception.FlavorDiskSmallerThanMinDisk'> (HTTP 500) (Request-ID: req-774039f4-3619-4bb8-8727-31e5f99edda2)
----

== Current implementation

=== Images

Different OS images are available on Openstack.

.OpenStack Image information
[%header,cols="2m,1,1,1"]
|===
| Name | OS | Version | FS

| Fedora-Cloud-Base-35 | Fedora | 35 | BTRFS
| CentOS-8-x86_64-GenericCloud-released-latest | CentOS | 8 | ????
| CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-released-latest | CentOS | 7 | ????

|===

=== Flavors


.OpenStack Flavor information
[%header,cols="2m,1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Flavor | VCPUS | RAM | Total Disks | Root Disk | Ephmeral Disk

| m1.medium | 2 | 4 GB | 40 GB | 40 GB | 0 GB 
| ci.m1.medium | 2 | 4 GB | 40 GB | 40 GB | 0 GB 
| ci.m1.medium.large	| 4| 4 GB | 16 GB | 16 GB | 0 GB 
| ci.m5.large | 16 | 32GB | 40GB | 40GB | 0GB 
|===




:leveloffset: +1

include::../ansible/playbook/openstack/README.adoc[]

:leveloffset: -1
