openstack/README.adoc, before:

= OpenStack
:icons: font
:toc: left
:description: This document describes the requirements and the process to execute the provisioning of a Cloud VM on Openstack.
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

== Prerequisites
// tag::rhos_prerequisites[]

The following python packages are needed:

- https://github.com/micheles/decorator/blob/master/docs/documentation.md#usefulness-of-decorators[decorator]
- https://pypi.org/project/openstacksdk/[openstacksdk] (Version: 1.2.0)

and can be installed using pip

[source,bash]
----
$ [sudo] pip3 install decorator
$ [sudo] pip3 install openstacksdk
----

like also the `openstack.cloud` Ansible collection.

[source,bash]
----
$ ansible-galaxy collection install openstack.cloud
----
// end::rhos_prerequisites[]

== VM Required Information

=== Images

Different OS images are available on Openstack.

.OpenStack Image information
[%header,cols="2m,1,1,1"]
|===
| Name | OS | Version | FS

| Fedora-Cloud-Base-35 | Fedora | 35 | BTRFS
| CentOS-8-x86_64-GenericCloud-released-latest | CentOS | 8 | ????
| CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-released-latest | CentOS | 7 | ????

|===

=== Flavors


.OpenStack Flavor information
[%header,cols="2m,1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Flavor | VCPUS | RAM | Total Disks | Root Disk | Ephmeral Disk

| m1.medium | 2 | 4 GB | 40 GB | 40 GB | 0 GB 
| ci.m1.medium | 2 | 4 GB | 40 GB | 40 GB | 0 GB 
| ci.m1.medium.large	| 4| 4 GB | 16 GB | 16 GB | 0 GB 
| ci.m4.xlarge	| 4| 16 GB | 40 GB | 40 GB | 0 GB 
| g.standard.xxl | 12 | 24GB | 120GB | 120GB | 0GB 
| ci.m5.large | 16 | 32GB | 40GB | 40GB | 0GB 
|===

:leveloffset: +1

include::../ansible/playbook/openstack/README.adoc[]

:leveloffset: -1

Commit message:

feat: ansible collection for snowdrop.cloud_infra
docs: improved docs on OpenStack usage

feat: playbook to init the ansible controller

feat: GoDaddy DNS record manipulation

docs: set the README for the roles

fix: problems found when deploying kubernetes 1.24.3 cluster

openstack/README.adoc, after:

= OpenStack
Snowdrop Team (Antonio Costa)
:icons: font
:revdate: {docdate}
:toc: left
:description: This document describes the requirements and the process to execute the provisioning of a Cloud VM on Openstack.
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

== Prerequisites
// tag::rhos_prerequisites[]

The following python packages are needed:

- https://github.com/micheles/decorator/blob/master/docs/documentation.md#usefulness-of-decorators[decorator]
- https://pypi.org/project/openstacksdk/[openstacksdk] (Version: 1.2.0)

and can be installed using pip

[source,bash]
----
$ [sudo] pip3 install decorator
$ [sudo] pip3 install openstacksdk
----

like also the `openstack.cloud` Ansible collection.

[source,bash]
----
$ ansible-galaxy collection install openstack.cloud
----
// end::rhos_prerequisites[]

== VM Required Information

=== Images

Different OS images are available on Openstack.

.OpenStack Image information
[%header,cols="2m,1,1,1"]
|===
| Name | OS | Version | FS

| Fedora-Cloud-Base-35 | Fedora | 35 | BTRFS
| CentOS-8-x86_64-GenericCloud-released-latest | CentOS | 8 | ????
| CentOS-7-x86_64-GenericCloud-released-latest | CentOS | 7 | ????

|===

=== Flavors

.OpenStack Flavor information
[%header,cols="2m,1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Flavor | VCPUS | RAM | Total Disks | Root Disk | Ephmeral Disk

| m1.medium | 2 | 4 GB | 40 GB | 40 GB | 0 GB 
| ci.m1.medium | 2 | 4 GB | 40 GB | 40 GB | 0 GB 
| ci.m1.medium.large	| 4| 4 GB | 16 GB | 16 GB | 0 GB 
| ci.m4.xlarge	| 4| 16 GB | 40 GB | 40 GB | 0 GB 
| g.standard.xxl | 12 | 24GB | 120GB | 120GB | 0GB 
| ci.m5.large | 16 | 32GB | 40GB | 40GB | 0GB 
|===

== Available Ansible Playbooks

More information on the available OpenStack Ansible Playbooks on the 
link:../ansible/playbook/openstack/README.adoc[Playbook README].
