openshift/certificate_renewal.adoc, before:

= OCP Certificate Renewal
Snowdrop Team (Antonio Costa)
:icons: font
:revdate: {docdate}
:toc: left
:toclevels: 3
:description: Renew OCP cluster certificate
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

This document describes the process to renew an OCP cluster certificates.

== References

* https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/security/certificates/replacing-default-ingress-certificate.html

== Obtain the Issuer certificate

In this case we use Let's Encrypt so we must get the R3 intermidiate 
 certificates.

https://letsencrypt.org/certificates/#intermediate-certificates

ATTOW the certificate being used is the 
 `Let’s Encrypt R3 (RSA 2048, O = Let's Encrypt, CN = R3)`.

Download the `txt` file under `Signed by ISRG Root X1` and name it
 `apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.issuer.crt`.

== Obtain the certificate files from the Certificate Manager

The renewed certificates can be obtained from the Certificate Manager
 deployed on the `snowdrop-k8s` kubernetes cluster.

To obtain the `snowdrop.dev` certificate execute the following command. 
 It will store the certificate contents on the `apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.crt` 
 file.

[source,bash]
----
kubectl -n snowdrop-site get secret www-snowdrop-dev-tls -o json | jq -r '.data["tls.crt"]' | base64 -d > apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.crt
----

The private key associated with the previos certificate can be obtained 
 using the following command. 
 It will store the key contents on the `apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.crt` file.

[source,bash]
----
kubectl -n snowdrop-site get secret www-snowdrop-dev-tls -o json | jq -r '.data["tls.key"]' | base64 -d > apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.key
----

== Update the certificate

From the previous 2 sections 3 files are obtained:

apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.issuer.crt:: Let's Encrypt R3 Intermidiate certificate
apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.crt:: `snowdrop.dev` certificate
apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.key:: Key of the `snowdrop.dev` certificate

We can now recreate the OCP cluster certificates.

=== Recreate the CA certificate

If the Issuer certificate has changed apply it to the cluster.

Recreate the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/[ConfigMap] file containing the CA certificate.

Delete the existing `custom-ca`.

[source,bash]
----
oc delete configmap custom-ca -n openshift-config 
----

Create the `custom-ca` ConfigMap with the root CA certificate used 
 to sign the wildcard certificate.

[source,bash]
----
oc create configmap custom-ca \
  -n openshift-config \
  --from-file=apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.issuer.crt
----

Update the cluster configuration with the created ConfigMap.

[source,bash]
----
oc patch proxy/cluster \
     --type=merge \
     --patch='{"spec":{"trustedCA":{"name":""}}}'
----

[source,bash]
----
oc patch proxy/cluster \
     --type=merge \
     --patch='{"spec":{"trustedCA":{"name":"custom-ca"}}}'
----

=== Replace the default ingress certificate

Delete the existing secret for the TLS.

[source,bash]
----
oc delete secret snowdrop-dev -n openshift-ingress
----

Create a secret containing the certificate chain and key.

[source,bash]
----
oc create secret tls snowdrop-dev \
  -n openshift-ingress \
  --cert=apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.crt \
  --key=apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.key
----

Update the Ingress Controller configuration with the secret.

[source,bash]
----
oc patch ingresscontroller.operator default \
  -n openshift-ingress-operator \
  --type=merge -p \
  '{"spec":{"defaultCertificate": {"name": ""}}}'
----

[source,bash]
----
oc patch ingresscontroller.operator default \
  -n openshift-ingress-operator \
  --type=merge -p \
  '{"spec":{"defaultCertificate": {"name": "snowdrop-dev"}}}'
----

Commit message:

docs: improve description for certificate manager

openshift/certificate_renewal.adoc, after:

= OCP Certificate Renewal
Snowdrop Team (Antonio Costa)
:icons: font
:revdate: {docdate}
:toc: left
:toclevels: 3
:description: Renew OCP cluster certificate
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

This document describes the process to renew an OCP cluster certificate.

== Introduction

By default, the certificate issued during the installation of the 
 OpenShift cluster on RHOS does not include the DNS names defined to 
 access the console, API, oauth and other services. 
 In this case, it is required to use a Certificate authority, like 
 Letsencrypt, to trust a certificate created for different DNS names as 
 well as using a domain name hosted by a DNS provider (godaddy, 
 cloudfare, etc).

The process can be managed by the cert-manager. When we issue a certificate CR packaging the ACME DNS01 solver and able to contact the DNS provider to validate if the DNS names to be used are valid/exist.

If this is the case, then letsencrypt will issue a Certificate for the DNS 
 names and will include part of the certificate their CA root certificate R3.

By doing that, the worker nodes will be able to access the API server 
 running on the masters, the users will not get a certificate not valid 
 from their browser anymore, if of course you following the instruction 
 detailed in the 
 link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/security/certificates/replacing-default-ingress-certificate.html[OCP Documentation].

== References

* https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/security/certificates/replacing-default-ingress-certificate.html

== Obtain the Issuer certificate

In this case we use Let's Encrypt so we must get the R3 intermidiate 
 certificates.

https://letsencrypt.org/certificates/#intermediate-certificates

ATTOW the certificate being used is the 
 `Let’s Encrypt R3 (RSA 2048, O = Let's Encrypt, CN = R3)`.

Download the `txt` file under `Signed by ISRG Root X1` and name it
 `apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.issuer.crt`.

== Obtain the certificate files from the Certificate Manager

The renewed certificates can be obtained from the Certificate Manager
 deployed on the `snowdrop-k8s` kubernetes cluster.

To obtain the `snowdrop.dev` certificate execute the following command. 
 It will store the certificate contents on the `apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.crt` 
 file.

[source,bash]
----
kubectl -n snowdrop-site get secret www-snowdrop-dev-tls -o json | jq -r '.data["tls.crt"]' | base64 -d > apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.crt
----

The private key associated with the previos certificate can be obtained 
 using the following command. 
 It will store the key contents on the `apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.crt` file.

[source,bash]
----
kubectl -n snowdrop-site get secret www-snowdrop-dev-tls -o json | jq -r '.data["tls.key"]' | base64 -d > apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.key
----

== Update the certificate

From the previous 2 sections 3 files are obtained:

apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.issuer.crt:: Let's Encrypt R3 Intermidiate certificate
apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.crt:: `snowdrop.dev` certificate
apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.key:: Key of the `snowdrop.dev` certificate

We can now recreate the OCP cluster certificates.

=== Recreate the CA certificate

If the Issuer certificate has changed apply it to the cluster.

Recreate the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/[ConfigMap] file containing the CA certificate.

Delete the existing `custom-ca`.

[source,bash]
----
oc delete configmap custom-ca -n openshift-config 
----

Create the `custom-ca` ConfigMap with the root CA certificate used 
 to sign the wildcard certificate.

[source,bash]
----
oc create configmap custom-ca \
  -n openshift-config \
  --from-file=apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.issuer.crt
----

Update the cluster configuration with the created ConfigMap.

[source,bash]
----
oc patch proxy/cluster \
     --type=merge \
     --patch='{"spec":{"trustedCA":{"name":""}}}'
----

[source,bash]
----
oc patch proxy/cluster \
     --type=merge \
     --patch='{"spec":{"trustedCA":{"name":"custom-ca"}}}'
----

=== Replace the default ingress certificate

Delete the existing secret for the TLS.

[source,bash]
----
oc delete secret snowdrop-dev -n openshift-ingress
----

Create a secret containing the certificate chain and key.

[source,bash]
----
oc create secret tls snowdrop-dev \
  -n openshift-ingress \
  --cert=apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.crt \
  --key=apps.ocp.snowdrop.dev.key
----

Update the Ingress Controller configuration with the secret.

[source,bash]
----
oc patch ingresscontroller.operator default \
  -n openshift-ingress-operator \
  --type=merge -p \
  '{"spec":{"defaultCertificate": {"name": ""}}}'
----

[source,bash]
----
oc patch ingresscontroller.operator default \
  -n openshift-ingress-operator \
  --type=merge -p \
  '{"spec":{"defaultCertificate": {"name": "snowdrop-dev"}}}'
----
